#labels Featured
= Metadata and old maps =

= Standards for store/exchange =

  * *ISO 19115*
  * *DublinCore*
  * (FGDC - predecessor of ISO, used in GEODEX: GEOgraphic InDEX System for Map Series (dos application), FGDC editor MetaLite: ML4ML)
  * MARC21 / USMARC / ... (traditional libraries)

Equivalent fields in these formats (for some there are available convertors):
http://www.dlib.org/dlib/january00/chandler/01chandler.html

Alexandria Digital Library Metadata + Crosswalk scripts:
http://www.alexandria.ucsb.edu/public-documents/metadata/index.html

ECAI Metadata Standards:
http://www.ecai.org/documentation/ecai_metadata_standard.html

= Exchange standards =

  * OAI-PMH (harvesting in different metadata formats, always DublinCore).

  * OpenGIS Catalogue Service (http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/cat) defines remote query/filtering language

  interesting part: *Catalogue Service for Web (CSW)* based on HTTP/SOAP (WSDL available) other protocol binding are for Z39.50, SRW/SRU and for CORBA/IIOP.

  * OpenSearch GEO extension (returns GeoRSS, KML)

= INSPIRE - EU iniciative for exchange of spatial metadata =

EU INSPIRE DIRECTIVE - establishing an INfrastructure for SPatial InfoRmation in the European Community

It is using ISO standards (ISO 19115 XML and DublinCore).

http://www.inspire-geoportal.eu/

http://www.ec-gis.org/inspire/

They have online editor for ISO-19115, and OGC Catalog Service CSW.

= Free software =

=== CatMdEdit ===

Desktop Java application for editing metadata (ISO) (which are stored
as files in the directory).

http://catmdedit.sourceforge.net/

=== GeoNetwork ===

Online catalogue implementing OAI-PMH and OGC CSW, web interface for
editing ISO metadata.

http://geonetwork-opensource.org/

http://geonetwork-opensource.org/documentation/manual/quickstartguide1.0/GeoNetwork%20opensource%20Quick%20Start%20Guide%20v1.0.pdf

http://geonetwork-opensource.org/documentation/tutorial/publisher/

http://geonetwork-opensource.org/documentation/manual/geonetwork-manual/Manual.pdf

=== UConn Map Metadata Editor ===

FGDC/GEODEX Metadata Editor saving records in MySQL database. Developed from "Building a Globally Distributed Historical Sheet Map Set" grant. It also contains GDAL2Tiles binary for cutting map files into Google Earth tiles.

http://imlsmap.lib.uconn.edu/product.html 

=== ‡biblios.org | Open Source Cataloging ===

Online MARC Editor with support for OAI, Z39.50, ... Possibility to use the project as online service.

http://biblios.org/

=== Koha (Free Library System) ===

Koha is an open-source integrated library system (ILS).

http://www.koha.org/

=== Other Library Systems ===

Evergreen: http://www.open-ils.org/

OpenBiblio: http://sourceforge.net/projects/obiblio/

PMB (PhpMyBibli): http://www.sigb.net/

PML (PhpMyLibrary): http://phpmylibrary.com/pml/